module-0x5-or-exploitation-kung-fu/metasm.md, before:

# metasm

Metasm is a cross-architecture assembler, disassembler, linker, and debugger. It is written in such a way that it is easy to add support for new architectures. For now, the following architectures are in:

* Intel Ia32.txt \(16 and 32bits\)
* Intel X86\_64.txt \(_aka_ Ia32 64bits, X64, AMD64\)
* MIPS
* PowerPC
* Sh4

Supports low and high-level debugging support \(Ia32 only for now\) under Windows, Linux and remote \(via a gdbserver\). Metasm is included in Metasploit by default.

* Install Metasm gem

  ```text
  gem install metasm
  ```

  More about installation [here](https://github.com/jjyg/metasm/blob/master/doc/install_notes.txt).

## Converting Assembly to Op-code - metasm-shell.rb

You can find metasm-shell in ruby gems default path after installation. In my case, it's located in `/var/lib/gems/2.1.0/gems/metasm-1.0.2/samples`

* Run it

```ruby
ruby metasm-shell.rb
type "exit" or "quit" to quit
use ";" for newline

asm>
```

as you can see you are now in the shell's prompt

* Find assembly op-code

```ruby
asm> nop nop
"\x90\x90"
asm> call [eax]
"\xff\x10"
asm> push esp
"\x54"
asm> pop eax
"\x58"
```

More usage will be added for this awesome library.

Commit message:

Converting Assembly to Op-code with nasm_shell

module-0x5-or-exploitation-kung-fu/metasm.md, after:

# metasm

Metasm is a cross-architecture assembler, disassembler, linker, and debugger. It is written in such a way that it is easy to add support for new architectures. For now, the following architectures are in:

* Intel Ia32.txt \(16 and 32bits\)
* Intel X86\_64.txt \(_aka_ Ia32 64bits, X64, AMD64\)
* MIPS
* PowerPC
* Sh4

Supports low and high-level debugging support \(Ia32 only for now\) under Windows, Linux and remote \(via a gdbserver\). Metasm is included in Metasploit by default.

* Install Metasm gem

  ```text
  gem install metasm
  ```

  More about installation [here](https://github.com/jjyg/metasm/blob/master/doc/install_notes.txt).

## Converting Assembly to Op-code - metasm-shell.rb

You can find metasm-shell in ruby gems default path after installation. In my case, it's located in `/var/lib/gems/2.1.0/gems/metasm-1.0.2/samples`

* Run it

```ruby
ruby metasm-shell.rb
type "exit" or "quit" to quit
use ";" for newline

asm>
```

as you can see you are now in the shell's prompt

* Find assembly op-code

```ruby
asm> nop nop
"\x90\x90"
asm> call [eax]
"\xff\x10"
asm> push esp
"\x54"
asm> pop eax
"\x58"
```

Note: it is possible to do exactly the same thing with a metasploit embedded tool: `nasm_shell`.

```
$ /opt/metasploit/tools/exploit/nasm_shell.rb
nasm > jmp esp
00000000  FFE4              jmp esp
```
